NAME_ITUNESARTLESS
TAGLINE_ITUNESARTLESS
by

%!postproc: ROOTPATH	..
% Extra TITLE
%!postproc: '(</TITLE>)'	' - TAGLINE_ITUNESARTLESS\1'
% BODY name
%!postproc: '(<BODY)'		'\1 id="project-ID_ITUNESARTLESS" class="applescriptitunes"'

%!includeconf: ../config.t2t
%!include: ../sidebar-softs.t2t

''' <div id="content">
You use that nice iTunes script/plugin to automatically download the album cover from the Internet, don’t you? But after using it for a while, how could you know which songs are still missing the artwork?

This script fills this gap, showing you the “artwork-less” songs. Then you can run the download plugin on them.

- Free / Open Source AppleScript (Mac only)
- [See installation instructions http://aurelio.net/articles/applescript-install.html]
- [Read user reviews http://aureliosoft.wordpress.com/itunes-find-artwork-less/]
-

''' <div class="downloadbox">
 | {IMG_DOWNLOAD} | [Download http://aurelio.googlecode.com/files/iTunes_Find_Artwork-less-1.0.zip] | {IMG_FINDER}
''' </div>

== User Comments ==[users]

: "With Apple TV you want all your album art to look cool. The problem: how to find out which of my 8000 songs don't have artwork. Your script, genius! Thanks!"
— Chris van Winkle
:

[Read more comments... http://aureliosoft.wordpress.com/itunes-find-artwork-less/]


== Road Map ==

=== Step 1 ===

Select the desired songs or playlist in iTunes.

=== Step 2 ===

Run this script.

=== Step 3 ===

Wait a moment and a new playlist named "* Missing Artwork" will appear. All the songs on it have no Album Artwork.

% close CONTENT
''' </div>

%!include: ''../_disqus.html''
%!include: ''../footer.html''
